## Aims
### Aim I 
_To extend existing benchmark single cell RNA-Seq datasets of the developing retina across library techniques, developmental stages, and species. Thus, allowing for both discrete cell type identification at multiple hierarchical levels, as well as continuous properties such as pseudotemporal state, pseudo-spatial state, differentiation state and progenitor competency._
1. We will extend our current catalog of mouse retina single cell data to include sci-RNA-Seq3 and sci-nucRNA-Seq in mouse developing retina.
2. We will conduct bulk RNA-Seq and single cell sci-RNA-Seq in de-identified human postmortem tissue.
3. We will evaluate the potential for cross-species basis vector comparison using ProjectoR to project developing mouse retina basis vectors into publicly available and newly generated human single-cell RNA-seq and ATAC-seq datasets from retina and other developmentally related tissues and determine whether basis vectors learned in mouse retina, can identify human cells undergoing similar biological processes.

### Aim II
_To benchmark ProjectoR using basis vectors (models) from developing mouse and human retina learned from tools across collaborative network_
1. We will evaluate ProjectoR performance on output from various collaborative network models.
2. Benchmark computation speed on projections in exponentially scaled data sets with corresponding increases in dimensionality and complexity.
3. Using benchmark datasets and a priori knowledge we will access accuracy of biological assignments of basis using metrics of sensitivity and specificity of projections to evaluate statistical power. 
4. We will identify technical vs biological models and determine methods to QC individual cells via projection of models.

### Aim III
_To develop model comparison statistics, pathway enrichment testing, and novel basis vector visualizations in ProjectoR_
1. We will compare collaborative network analytical tools using ProjectoR projections on benchmark datasets to highlight optimal usage for specific biological questions.
2. We will develop a statistical framework to test for discriminatory power for major cell types or lineages by a given pattern, and develop tools to identify technical artifact patterns.
3. We will develop ProjectoR visualizations to explore shared biological features across benchmark datasets, as well as public and published single cell RNA-Seq datasets to create comprehensive model via projection  (e.g. PCA as example).
